So an android 8.0 or you know we got some awesome new features around fun.
So the big ones are downloadable fonts and also fonts in SML So let's start first with downloadable
fonts and the basic idea here is that it's similar to fonts that you'll see on web sites So Google has
the Google fonts Web site where there's a bunch of different fonts that you can access but they're all
sort of available at one central location sort of a bunch of Web sites all reference the same fonts
in the same location.
Hopefully users that use those fonts will have them cached on their browsers and they won't have to
read download them all the time and so basically that's what's trying to happen here with Android 8.0
so you can see there may be multiple apps that are still looking for one particular font.
And if there's a font provider that has that we can save those in a font cache and that app can then
access them.
So Google is set up and they've made their phones available so that anybody can go and get them there.
But you know also other people could be fought providers so it's a pretty interesting way that they
have that set up.
So there's a couple of different ways that you can do this.
I think the best is through Android studio here so let's go ahead and create a new project we're going
to go ahead and call this Funt fun.
Now technically you can get to all this font stuff in any API higher than 14 which you can see is pretty
far back.
But let's go ahead and roll on the latest API 26 and we'll just go ahead and make a new app here.
So while this is loading up basically what we need to do is you know we're going to have a new text
view we're going to go in and try and set it's font family and it's going to give this option to say
more fonts and if we go ahead and we do that we can go get a particular font from this option for here.
Has Google fonts but again you can get them from other providers.
So that's the basic flow that we're going to be going for here.
And while this is opening up let me talk about the phantom Exham.
So the basic idea here is that you can make fonts a resource and so you can add them into your new resource
folder as a font and you can get to them by you know either reference to them at Font slash my font
or our DOT font dot my font so you know kind of cool that you can directly add those and just reference
them so we're actually going to be using downloading a Google phone and then bringing that in that will
be kind of interesting to see how that goes.
But now with Android studio up and running here let's go ahead and move over to our main activity X
m-L.
So whenever we create a new project it has that hello world text view for so we're just going to go
ahead and use that one and try and alter its font.
So let's give Android studio a second to load up here.
There we go.
So we're going to select this text view.
Then over here on the right side we want to view all attributes and we're going to move down till we
can find its font family.
There we go.
So you can see when we go to choose this we can scroll through and there's lots of different options
here.
But if we do more fonts you can see there's a couple of options here and if we have for source Google
fonts This is where you know he get all the goo ones so these are kind of the standard Android ones.
But look at all these awesome ones that are out here.
So for example let's find one that really sticks out in the atomic age.
That look pretty cool so maybe we select this one.
And we want to check this box for say create downloadable font and so we'll go ahead and choose this
one font name atomic age.
So go ahead and say OK to this.
And now you can see we get that hello world in that cool little text.
But the bigger idea with all of this is that now if there are other apps that are going to be using
this font right like you know this is maybe our.
But there's three other apps that are going to use that.
They can all look for the same font via the font cache.
And that means that not all the apps have to add them to their project.
It just makes it that much easier.
So this is kind of a really really big idea by Android.
Assuming that you know people are going to really enjoy these Google fonts because right now seems to
be the only source.
Again those can be added from other places in the future but seems to be the most popular and the ideas
that you know these apps will look to those for the source of their fonts.
Now let's go to the other option where this says hey no I just want to add my own font into my project
and be able to use that one.
So first we have to have a font file in order to do that.
So let's go ahead and open up a new tab.
And in this we are going to search for Google fonts.
It's funny I'm using Duck Duck Go To get to a Google product here.
But here we go Fahnestock Google dot com.
All right.
Once this opens up we just want to show you some sort of fun.
Let's do something that we can definitely determine that that is our particular fund you know there's
so many here.
Oh this one looks cool.
Glory Hallelujah fun here so let's go ahead and we'll hit the plus button on this.
And family selected.
Look at that so this is I told you kind of the ideas in web development and you can link to these Google
fonts and then if lots of web sites do that they should be cached.
But we're going to hit the download button here because we want to you know use this particular file.
So let's just go ahead and save that and once we have that there go ahead and open up that download
case.
Now that's got a folder for us I'm going to move this to my desktop and if we go to the desktop look
at that we get that T T F file.
So in order to add your own font into Android studio with this SML stuff we've got to go create a new
directory.
So we're going to go to Android studio bring up our side project and open up our app rez and then we're
going to right click here.
And we want to do the new Android resource directory.
So go ahead and select that.
Now what we're looking for here is font's.
So we'll go ahead and say Fonte I need to make sure it's fun with no s.
There we go.
So we want it to be font resource type.
This is where we want to select fonts so we have font font that looks good we'll hit OK and file already
exists.
Oh well I guess we are.
Oh that's because the atomic age was added in there.
OK.
So we already have atomic age now that we have and let's go ahead and look at that file so you can see
what that looks like.
So it's telling us here where it is that we can go and grab this font with all that.
But you know let's say we want to add our own font inside of here.
So let's go back to Firefox.
And with this now we can simply add some files to that font folder.
So let's go back to android studio and I'm going to right click and say reveal and finder.
So this brings up that folder and I can go from my desktop and say oh here's this thought TFF file and
I'll place that in.
Now I've done that I can right click here and I can say synchronize font and that's now going to show
the glory hallelujah and it gives you in this nice little you know preview of how this should look.
OK.
So once we have this in place again it's very simple now to go get to this so if we go back to our main
activity and I want to change the font family on this one look.
Gloria hallelujah.
I just select that one and boom you can see now we have that nice sort of hand-drawn hello world showing
up there.
So in addition to this you can create font family so within one if you want to have you know different
ones for if there is an Italic version or regular A bold bold italic like all those different things
you can add those in there and you know you can.
This is where you're going to be using the M-L to create like the font family and all that stuff.
But yeah and again if you wanted to access this glory hallelujah in your code you get to with our DOT
for my fun.
In fact let's go ahead and just prove this out for a second let's go to our main activity.
All right so here we're doing the content for you but let's you know we could say our font and look
there's that Glory hallelujah.
So there you have it.
That's a little tip on fonts there hopefully to make your app that much better looking I believe fonts
are a very small thing that you can do that have a big impact on your app when people see an app with
a specialized font especially for that app that you know sort of fits with the style of it.
It just shows that there's that much more attention to detail.
So hope you enjoyed learning about the new fun stuff.